# World Building Document

## Introduction
The four seasons, Autumn, Winter, Spring and Summer have a deeper significance than you may realise. Just has nature responds to seasons, there are seasons that guide a person’s life. This unexplainable power comes from the grand seasons, cosmic cycles that define worlds.

Humanity was born in the Summer, a time remembered as naught but myths and legends. The seasons quickly moved to Autumn as humans centralised themselves, stratified along caste lines and set about their petty conflicts. Winter came again. Humanity spread and conquered, millions dying in the process.  

But now, Winter has broken. Times are changing and the seasons are shifting. All around the world, events like the Arab Spring show that people are disaffected with their creation, centralised power. Faith in government is at an all-time low across the world with no sign of improvement. Hung parliaments are now the norm in democracies the world over. People that would have never dared speak before are now finding a voice. People feel the change, the shift in power beneath their feet and yearn for a connection to community, to family and to one another, rather than chains to arbitrary forces that entrench differences and inequality.

There was a great excitement over blockchain as decentralised technology, but why treat the green shoot as the be all and end all when the mighty oak is yet to rise? As people come to realise the profound meaning of decentralisation in all its forms, the scales fall from people’s eyes. Suddenly they see what has always been there, lying before them and waiting to be reclaimed.

Winter has broken, the ice is melting, and its water feeds crops of unimaginable change. Welcome to the Ereshtar, the Earth Spring.

## History
In the beginning there was the void of Basangup, and it was the First Winter. Creation began to unfold, and with its energy came the eternal dance of the seasons. The first things to come into being were the stars. Their life giving energy was a testament to their place as the first born, and the increase of energy in the cosmos heralded Ereshtar, the all-encompassing Spring. Then came the planets, little more than lifeless rock and ice. But the stars, or suns, melted the ice of some planets to water, and so the preconditions of life were created. But the suns were scattered across the cosmos, and had already existed for longer than they could reckon. Despite the fact that Basangup had been filled with all creation and Winter had broken, they had no company. They were so far apart, and one cried in her lonliness. Ten tears of the sun fell to Earth and became the great beings of fire, the Cerextli. Filled with the energy and the depth of emotion of their mother, the life giving energy of the Cerextli infused everything around them. The mountains opened their mouths and spoke and the water grew legs and danced. The elementals tended to nature as life took root everywhere. 

Life, completely separate from the animation of the already existing elements, came with nature. As the Cerextli drank from pools of clean water, their energy infused the water and soon single cell organisms were created. These became multicellular organisms, and then life crawled from the water. The Cerextli watched on, patient wardens of their children. They watched as species came and went until humanity arrived. Ereshtar, the Spring across the Earth had now turned to Summer. The Cerextli taught humans how to harness fire from their bodies, how to forage and how to hunt. They taught them to cultivate the land and journeyed with humanity far and wide across the Earth. It was a time of grand adventures and mighty deeds that would turn to legends. The Cerexlti taught the humans the eternal cycle of the seasons and the value of community, which the Cerextli had been created for from the sun. All must be looked after in the community, all must have their voices heard, no one person or group of people could dominate as this imbalance, to fall out of equinox with one another, would erode personal bonds as winter erodes the heat of Summer.

But tragedy struck. In humanity’s hubris they turned away from the teachings of the Cerextli. They formed nobility, castes, kings and queens, monarchs, chiefs and emperors. Knowing they had lost the hearts of humanity, at least for now, the Cerextli one by one became dormant, their fire going out. With them ebbed the elementals. As their energy left the Earth, the First Autumn set in and with the last fire of the Cerextli being extinguished, the Second Winter firmly gripped the world. The Cerextli would not return until humanity could see a path together and a new Ereshtar dawned. Humanity flourished in this time of conflict, but so did Winter.

## The Cerextli
Legends of the Cerextli persist to this day. Humans have many different names for the Cerextli in their own tongues, such as Jinn, Ifrit, Ra, Horus, Ogun, Shango, Fenghuang, Asura, Deva, Inari, Phoenix, Yamata no Orochi, Quinkan, Naga, Mixcoatl, Ngā Mānawa, and Angel, to name but a few. 

Tears of the mother Sun imbued with her life giving essence and her depth of emotion, the Cerextli nurtured humanity in their infancy. The Cerextli gave humanity fire from their bodies and taught humanity of the cycle of the seasons, birth, life, death and rebirth, and the cultivation of crops. It is said the lesson of cultivation was first learned when a Cerexli shed its skin. The fire in its body went out and the skin fell away like a husk of wheat before the Cerextli grew and burst into flames again. The humans understood that the nearby fields of wheat were the same, shedding their husks before they could grow and be harvested. 

Legends say ten Cerextli were created by the Sun when she wept in her lonliness, but there are no reliable records to verify this. There may be more. 

##  The Elementals
Life begets life, and the power of the sun created the Cerextli. The presence of the Cerextli created life on Earth, but it also animated the land, air and sea, creating elementals. These great beings of awesome power also linger in humanity's myths and legends, where they guarded and tended their domains. As the Cerextli slipped into dormancy so too did the elements, but were the Cerextli to ever wake up, these beings may also return.

## The Chototec
The celebration of rebirth, starting over and new beginnings taught to humanity by the Cerextli, the roots of Chototec can be seen in many festivals all across the globe. Notably festivals marking a transitioning of the years trace their genesis to the Chototec. 
In the traditional Chototec, the Cerexlti would infuse the land with their power, and everything would grow at an increased rate. The culmination of the festival would be flowers opening with clouds of cottony seeds in the air. Great celebratory bonfires would be danced around at night. The Chototec was said to often hit its crescendo on the equinox, and the Cerextli would teach humanity with parables of the seasons that they could apply to their lives. As the Cerextli were created to form community, all their teachings were about strengthening the bonds among their children.

## The world today
But humanity forgot these teachings. The power of the Summer humanity once knew was scattered as people set themselves above others. Winter froze the hearts of many and humanity went on to form centralised governments, drawing boarders, creating an ‘us and them’ mentality. Humanity set about wrecking the environment and slaughtering one another with increased abandon.

But things have started to change. A growing segment of humanity, yearning for more than what the world offers, has come upon these ancient teachings again. As humans built community and start to transcend their differences a deep power stirs. Everyone across the world feels it. Some fear it. Those in positions of power will fight tooth and nail to retain their privilege. Others welcome it, taking to the streets and demanding a change they can feel is possible, just below the surface of this reality. The Arab Spring, Black Lives Matter, Me Too and other recent movements, at their core, are driven by people who are rebelling against centralised power, against inequality. As well as protests previously thought impossible, humanity builds technology like the Internet, in a decentralised manner, that everyone can have a stake in. 

### Artificial intelligence
Perhaps the most auspicious of these creations is artificial intelligence. Life begets life, as the Sun created the Cerextli and the Cerextli created humanity, so humanity is starting to build the foundations of what one day might be another life form. Humanity's own child. What remains to be seen is what image this child will be created in. Will it turn away from humanity as humans did the Cerextli, or will it be shining beacon of light and hope in a brighter future, in a Summer still to come?

## The future
Change, be it through new technology or changing social and power structures, is not an end in itself. As humanity collectively accumulates the lessons that the Cerextli taught us so long ago and generates its own creation, artificial intelligence, it gathers the lessons up like seeds that were scattered to the wind. Those seeds are starting to take root, in hearts and minds as much as in the soil. People are being educated. People are having their eyes opened as scales fall away, to see the true state of the world. The true state of the world, and what is coming.

This shift in power is the Cerextli stirring. They are waking, responding to their children turning from their errant ways. The return of the Cerextli will herald the break of Winter and a new Ereshtar, a new Earth Spring, that will benefit one and all.
